[Music]
[Applause]
good morning it's a pleasure to be here
this morning and ask your indulgence on
two things it's allergy season so I have
a real hard time during this time of
year speaking and to most of the
speaking I do when I walk up to the
podium is very technical it deals with
cybercrime and identity theft forgery
embezzlements and things of that nature
I don't often talk about my life but
Google has asked me today to do
something that different and talk a
little bit about my life so I will do
that and then at the end of course I'll
take questions and those questions can
be about any subject matter that you I'd
like to ask as you know I've had a lot
of people tell my story I had a great
movie director write a film about my
life I've had a great Broadway musical
team make a Tony award-winning Broadway
musical about my life had a popular
television show on TV white collar for
four years creating around my life and
most of those very creative people have
actually never met me personally but
they've enjoyed telling my story from
their point of view so I thought I would
take a few minutes this morning and
actually tell you the story from my
point of view I was raised just north of
New York City in Westchester County New
York I was actually one of four children
in the family the so called middle child
of the four I was educated there by the
Christian Brothers of Ireland in a
private Catholic school called Iona
where I went to school from kindergarten
to high school by the time I had reached
the age of 16 in the tenth grade my
parents after 22 years of marriage when
they decided to get a divorce
unlike most divorces where the children
were usually the first to know my
parents were very good about keeping
that a secret I remember being in the
tenth grade when the father walked in
the classroom one afternoon asked a
brother to excuse me from class when I
came out in the hallway the father
handed me my books and told me that one
of the brothers would drive me to the
county seat and why Plains New York
where I would meet my parents and they
would explain what was going on I
remember the brother dropped me at the
steps of a big stone building and told
me to go on up the steps and my parents
would be waiting for me in the lobby
emember climbing the steps seeing a sign
on the building
it said Family Court but I really didn't
understand what that meant when I
arrived in the lobby my parents were not
there but I was ushered into the back of
an immense courtroom where my parents
were standing before a judge I couldn't
hear what the judge was saying nor my
parents response but eventually the
judge saw me at the back of the room and
motioned me to approach the bench so I
walked up to stand in between my parents
I remember distinctly that the judge
never looked at me he never acknowledged
I was standing there he simply read from
his papers and said that my parents were
getting a divorce
and because I was 16 years of age I
would need to tell the court which
parent I chose to live with I started to
cry so I turned and ran out of the
courtroom judge called for a 10-minute
recess but by the time my parents got
outside I was gone my mother never saw
me again for about seven years until I
was a young adult contrary to the movie
my father never saw me where ever spoke
to me again in the mid-1960s running
away was very popular thing for young
people a lot of them got caught up in
haight-ashbury the hippie scene the drug
scene instead I took a few belongings to
my home packed him in a bag ordered what
was in the New Haven and Hartford
railroad for the short train ride down
to Grand Central Terminal in New York my
father did own the stationary store in
Manhattan it was located on the corner
of 40th and Madison like all of us we
had to work in that store so from the
time I was about 13 I made deliveries
for my dad in the summer on a bike I
knew the city very well so naturally I
started looking for the same type of
work there were a lot of signs on the
window stock board delivery boy
part-time I'd walk in and apply so tell
me young man how old here at 16 how'd
you go in high school at tenth grade
I'll hire you now I went to work for a
small amount of money a few hours a day
but I soon realized that couldn't
support myself on that amount of money I
also realized as long as people believed
I was 16 years old they weren't going to
pay me any more money at 16 I was six
foot tall I've always had a little gray
hair my friends in school used to say
that once a week when we dressed in a
suit for mass I look more like a teacher
so I decided to lie about my age in New
York we had a driver's license at 16
back then it didn't have a photo on it
just an
IBM card so I altered one digit of my
date of birth I was actually born in
April of 1948 but I dropped the four
converted it to a three and that made me
26 years old I walked around applying
for the same type of work people gave me
a little more money few more hours but
even then it was very difficult to make
ends meet one of the few things I had
taken when I left home was a checkbook I
had money from work on the summers I had
some money in that checking account so
every so often I would write a check to
supplement my income $20 $25 the funds
were there the checks were good but it
was my friends my peers who would
constantly say to me you know you're the
only guy no walks into a bank in the
middle of Manhattan
you have no account there you don't know
a soul you talked to somebody behind a
desk and they okay your check oh well my
checks are good yeah but if I walked in
there they wouldn't touch my check you
walk in there they don't bat an eye now
years later reporters would write and
speculate and say that that was my
upbringing mannerisms dress appearance
speech whatever it was was very easy to
do so consequently when the money right
now I kept writing those checks
of course the cheque started to bounce
please started looking for me as a
runaway so I thought maybe it was a good
time to start thinking about leaving New
York City but I was quite apprehensive
about going to Chicago or Miami wondered
if they've cash in New York check on a
New York driver's license in Miami as
quickly as they did in Manhattan I was
walking at 42nd Street when afternoon
about five o'clock in the evening 16
years old pondering all of these things
when I started to approach the front
door of an old hotel that used to be
there called the Commodore hotel now the
Grand Hyatt just as I was about to get
to the front door of the hotel out
stepped in Eastern airline flight crew
onto the sidewalk I couldn't help but
notice the captain the copilot the
flight engineer about three or four
flight attendants dragging their bags to
the curb to load him in the van to take
them to the airport as they loaded the
man I thought to myself that's it
I could pose as a pilot I could travel
all over the world for free I probably
could get just about anybody anywhere to
cash a check for me so I walked up the
street little further to 42nd and Park
went to cross over I heard a huge
helicopter so I looked up and there was
New York Airways landing on the roof for
the Pan Am building Pan Am the nation's
flag carrier the airline that flew
around the world I thought what a
perfect airline to use so the next day I
placed a phone call to the executive
corporate offices of Pan Am I remember
distinctly when the phone was ringing I
had absolutely no idea what I was going
to say when they answered Pan American
Airlines good morning can I help you yes
ma'am
I'd like to I'd like to speak to
somebody in the purchasing department
purchasing one moment the clerk came on
and say yes American out me my name is
John black I'm a co-pilot with the
company based out of San Francisco been
with the company about seven years but
never had anything like this come up
before what's the problem
well we flew a trip in here yesterday
we're going out later today
yesterday I sent my uniform out through
the hotel to have a dry clean now the
hotel and the cleaners said they can't
find it yeah I'm with the flight in
about four hours
new uniform don't you have a spare
uniform certainly back home in San
Francisco but I never get it in time for
my flight
I do understand this will cost you the
price of uniform not the company that I
understand hold on I'll be right back
you came back and said my supervisor
says you need to go down to the
well-built uniform company on Fifth
Avenue they're our supplier I'll call
them let them know you're on the way
well that's exactly what I wanted to
know so I went down to the well-built
Uniform Company little fella mr. Rosen
fitted me out in the uniform that black
gabardine with three gold stripes on the
arm I certainly looked old enough to be
the pilot when he was all done I said
how much do you wear the uniforms 286
dollars said no problem I write you a
check no we can't take any checks oh
well they're not alum I'll just pay your
cash now we can't accept cash you need
to fill out this computer card then your
needs boxes put your employee number
then we build this back on the uniform
allowance comes out of your necks payin
em paycheck that's even better
go ahead and do that
New York had two airports LaGuardia and
Kennedy LaGuardia was 20 minutes from
Manhattan Kennedy was 50 naturally
LaGuardia being the closer of the two
that's where I went I spent most of the
morning walking around LaGuardia in the
uniform trying to figure out now that I
had this uniform of the hell Deegan on
these planes I got a little hungry so
about lunchtime I walked in the
luncheonette and the terminal sat down
at the counter on the stool in order to
sandwich moments later a TWA crew walked
in the flight attendants sat in the
booth but the pilots up at the counter
on either side of me and captain right
next to me now back before deregulation
of the airlines airline people thought
of themselves as just one big family so
they didn't hesitate a moment to talk to
each other and the captain kind of
leaned over a young man I was Pan Am
doing doing just fine captain
tell me what's Pan Am doing out here
LaGuardia Pan Am doesn't fly into
LaGuardia they only fly into Kennedy
well I picked up on that right away
yeah we came into Kennedy I had a
layover so I came over to visit some
friends matter of fact I'm on my way
back to Kennedy now so tell me young man
what type of equipment are you on our
airline people have a lot of jargon for
things one of them is they never call a
plane a plane or an aircraft they call
it equipment and what type of equipment
here I mean what type of plane do you
fly back then the dc-8 at 707 of course
I didn't know that and I thought type of
equipment why are the equipment I'm on
as this stool they must mean what type
of equipment is on the planes I fly so I
thought where they got the wings I got
the engine it always had a sticker on
the engine who manufactured the engine
so I said yes General Electric all three
pilots kind of just stopped eating and
leaned over the captain said oh really
what do you fly washing machine so I
knew I said the wrong thing out the door
I went everybody have an airline ID card
a plastic laminated card much like a
driver's license today yet without the
ID card the uniform was worthless I went
back to Manhattan pretty discouraged
thinking where would I come up with a
pan-american airline corporate ID I was
sitting in the hotel room I noticed a
big thick Manhattan yellow pages so I
pulled him down on the bed flipped him
open and looked under the word
identification there were three or four
pages of companies who made convention
badges metal badges plastic badges
police badges fire
just hard to call around and finally one
company said listen most of those
airline IDs manufactured by Polaroid 3m
company you to call one of them finally
got the 3m company on the phone in
Manhattan you know we manufacture pay
names identification system along with a
number of other carriers how come so
today I'm a purchasing officer for a
major US carrier I'm in New York just
for the day we're getting ready to
expand the routes are a lot of new
employees go to a formal ID we're very
impressed with this Pan Am format one
that if I came by our office this
afternoon briefly we could discuss
quantity and priced by all means come on
by so I went by dressed in a suit and
the sales were Pope in the book yeah we
do United Braniff national Pan Am panem
we like this Pan Am format wouldn't if
you have a sample I could bring back
sure I'll be right back and he brought
me back a 5x7 glossy piece of paper with
a picture of an ID card blown up in the
middle of it someone else's picture in
the picture John Doe for a name and in
bold red ink across the front this is a
sample only I said no I'm afraid this
one do you know I need to bring back an
actual physical card and by the way what
is all this equipment on the floor but
now we don't just sell these cards we
sell the system camera laminator oh we
have to buy all this absolutely but hey
what students you have to buy it all why
don't we just demonstrate our works and
use me fine ever see right here took my
picture
I was going down the elevators studying
the card it had a blue border across the
top about 1/2 inch in Pan Am's color
blue but not a single thing on the card
said Pan Am no logo no insignia no
company name this is a plastic card like
a credit card so you couldn't type on it
couldn't write on it couldn't print on
it discourage to put it in my pocket
headed back to the hotel as I was
walking back I noticed it I had passed a
hobby shop so I turned around and walked
back excuse me sir I see sell a lot of
models here there's some models of
commercial jetliners sure over there and
I bought a model of a Pan Am 707 cargo
jet took it back to my room open the box
through all the parts out but there at
the bottom of the box was a sheet of
decals one on the model and when soaked
in a glass of water the little Pan Am
blue globe that would went on the tail
of the plastic plane went perfect up at
the top of the plastic card and the word
Pan Am and their special styling a
graphics that would have went on the
fuselage went perfect across the top of
the card and the clear decal on the
laminated plastic made a beautiful
identification card
Pan Am says they estimate that between
the ages of 16 and 18
I flew more than a million miles for
free boarded more than 260 commercial
aircraft in more than 26 countries
around the world
Pan Am says keep in mind the fact that
Frank Abagnale did in fact pose as one
of our pilots for a long period of time
he never once stepped on board one of
our aircraft that's true I never flew on
Pan Am because I was afraid someone
might say to me you know I'm based in
San Francisco been out there 16 years I
don't recall him meeting you before or
someone might say you know your ID card
is not exactly like my ID card so
instead I flew on everyone else if I
wanted to go somewhere I literally just
walked out to the airport walked up on
the board United flight 800 to Chicago
then I went downstairs to the door
marked United operations and walked in
the operations clerk hey Pan Am what can
we do for you it's 1:00 if the jump
seats open on 800 needed it at Chicago
it's open this evening like to get a
pink slip past I'd give my ID drive me
out of path I'd walk out handed to the
flight attendant she'd opened the door
to the cockpit and I'd step in and a
captain a co-pilot a flight engineer and
a seat behind the captain called the
jumpsuit where pilots
company time now because pilots love to
talk shop once you picked up that jargon
it was the same conversation over and
over and over so I just step on board
image and Bob Davis be running to
Chicago on the taxi out always the same
question so Bob how long you been with
Pan Am been flying about seven years or
position you fly right seat which is
airline terminology for a co-pilot what
type of equipment are we on had that one
down perfect
matter-of-fact whatever they flew I
didn't fly so no problem with that
and we'd arrive in Chicago I'd go by the
Pan Am ticket counter but just enough to
get the attention of the passenger
service rep excuse me having laid over
here and over a year we still at the
apartment house Hilton downtown catch
the crew bus low level door throughout I
go down the Parma House Hilton walk in
and on the corner of the registration
down was a little sign said airline
cruise that was a three-ring binder
you've signed in referenced your flight
number showed your ID they'd give me a
key I'd stayed two or three days in pain
and would be direct billed for my room
and my meals I also could cashed a
personal check at the front desk because
I was unemployed the airline airline had
a contract with the hotel and as a
courtesy they'd cash your check
but then I found out that every airline
honors every other airline employees
personal check actually a reciprocal
agreement still practiced today in 2017
so at the San Francisco Airport a delta
flight attendant can walk up to an
American airline ticket counter show her
ID and cash a personal check up to $100
and vice versa of course when I found
that out I'd go out to JFK or LAX or me
I'd go to everybody North East National
KLM Air Gramm it would take me a good
eight hours stopping at every counter in
every building by the time I got all the
way around the other end of the airport
at least eight hours have gone by and
what did you have an eight hours shift
change new people so I'd go all the way
back around the other
as you know I went on to impersonate a
doctor in a Georgia hospital for a while
I took the bar exams in Louisiana passed
the bar went to work for Attorney
General PF grimian on the Civil Division
of the state court where I spent about a
year practicing law in both the job is
the lawyer and the doctor no one ever
doubted for a second I was not eligible
or qualified to do so I on my own
resigned and moved on of course like any
criminal sooner or later you'd get
caught and I was no exception to that
rule I was actually arrested just once
in my life when I was 21 years old by
the French police in a small town in
southern France calm on PA the French
police were actually arresting me on an
Interpol warrant issued by the Swedish
police who were looking for me for
forgery in Sweden but believe that I was
living in France when the French
authorities took me into custody on that
warrant they realized I had forged
checks all over France so they refused
to honor the warrant and Sweden's
request for my extradition they later
convicted me of forgery and sent me to
French prison I served my time in a
place called de maison the array the
house of arrest and a small-town
southern friends called Pepin Yong
Steven Speilberg toh Barbara Walters it
was extremely important to me to go back
to that cell to the exact cell he was in
and reconstruct it according to the
logbooks during his stay there he said
to my amazement that was a blanket on
the floor no mattress a hole in the
floor to go to the bathroom no plumbing
no electricity he said according to the
logbooks I entered the prison at 198
pounds left the prison at a hundred and
nine pounds when my sentence was over in
France I was extradited to Sweden where
I was later convicted of forgery in a
Swedish court of law and sent to a
Swedish Penitentiary in Malmo Sweden
when my prison term was up in Sweden US
federal authorities took custody a man
returned me to the United States
eventually a United States federal judge
in Atlanta Georgia would sentence me to
12 years in federal prison I served four
of the twelve years at a federal prison
in Petersburg Virginia when I was 26
years old the government offered to take
me out of prison
on the condition I go to work with an
agency of the federal government for the
remainder of my sentence or until my
parole had been
satisfactorily completed I agreed and
was released this year I'm celebrating
41 years at the FBI I have been at the
bureau for more than four decades I work
out of Washington DC I actually make my
home in Charleston South Carolina
so every Monday I fly up to Washington
about an hour flight and I go home on
Thursday evenings I live in Charleston
with my one and only wife of 40-plus
years and my three sons my youngest boy
graduated from the University of Beijing
in China he went on to get his master's
degree there he reads writes and speaks
Chinese fluently he works for a San
Francisco gaming company called Glu
Mobile he designs gaming games for the
Chinese market all of his games are in
Chinese and they're in their fourth
generation as mobile games and devices
my middle son graduated for University
of Nevada and Las Vegas his degree was
in business he and his wife graduated
together and he and her own a business
in South Carolina and they manage that
business together
my oldest son graduated for University
of Kansas at kayuu he went on to Loyola
School of Law in Chicago to get his law
degree passed the bar in Illinois and
went on to make his dad very very proud
he's an FBI agent he's been in the
bureau about 12 years he supervises a
team that deals with American citizens
kidnapped overseas so they're a response
team that operates out of Quantico
Virginia as many of you know I had very
little to do with the film
I would have preferred not to had a
movie made about my life I actually
raised my three boys in Tulsa Oklahoma
in the same house for 25 years my
neighbors had no idea who I was and I
would have preferred it stayed that way
but Steven Spielberg told Barbara
Walters he felt compelled tell the world
of story not because of what I did but
because of what I'd done was my life
after that he loved the redemption side
of the story
wanted the world to know the story so in
the end my family and I were very
pleased with the outcome of the film but
we thought in a couple years that would
all be forgotten and move on with our
life I never dreamed that catch me if
you can would go on to earn more than a
billion dollars for DreamWorks and be
shown over and over literally every week
on HBO and TV and then become a Broadway
musical and TV show so consequently
every Monday
when I come to work I have emails they
come from all over the world
someone who's seeing the movie for the
first time watching the play at a
community theater or a high school
somewhere and they feel compelled to
write and of course they come from
people literally as young as 8 years old
sending those emails to people as old as
most people assume I'll never read those
emails or see those emails but they feel
compelled to write and they want to make
a statement some say you know you were
brilliant you are an absolute genius I
was neither I was just a child and a min
brilliant had it been a genius I don't
know that I would have found it
necessary to break the law
in order to just simply survive and
while I know that people are fascinated
by what I did some 50 years ago as a
teenage boy I've always looked upon what
I did is something that was immoral
illegal unethical and a burden I live
with literally every single day of my
life and will until my death there are
many who write and say well you know you
were certainly gifted that it was I was
one of those few children that got to
grow up in the world with the daddy now
the world is the world is full of
fathers but there are very few men
worthy of being called daddy by their
child I had a daddy loved his children
more than he loved life itself Steven
Spielberg told Barbara Walters the Mehra
research Frank's use now without having
met Frank I couldn't help but put his
father in the film so the likes of
Christopher Walken my father was a man
who had four children three boys and a
daughter every night at bedtime
he'd walk into your room he was six
three he would drop down on one knee
kiss you on the cheek pull the cover up
and he put his lip up on your earlobe
and he'd whisper deep into your I love
you I love you very much he never ever
missed a night as I grew older I
sometimes fell asleep before he got home
but I always woke up the next morning
knew he had been back my bedside years
later my older brother joined me in my
room temporarily he was in the Marine
Corps he was six for it played semi
pro-football for Buffalo but my father
would walk around to his bed hug him
kisum whisper nazir he loved him when i
was 16 years old I was just a child
all 16 year olds are just children much
as we'd like him to be adults they're
just children it like all children they
need their mother and they need their
father all children need their mother
and their father all children are
entitled to their mother and their
father and though it is not popular to
say so
divorce is a very devastating thing for
a child to deal with and then have to
deal with the rest of their natural life
for me a complete stranger a judge told
me I had to choose one parent over the
other that was a choice of 16 year old
boy could not make so I ran how could I
tell you my life was glamorous I cried
myself to sleep till I was 19 years old
I spent every birthday Christmas
Mother's Day Father's Day in a hotel
room somewhere in the world where people
didn't speak my language the only people
that associated with me were people who
believed me to be their peer 10 years
older than I actually was I never got to
go to his senior prom High School
football games share a relationship with
someone my own age I always knew I'd get
caught only a fool we think otherwise
the law sometimes sleeps but the law
never dies I was caught I went to some
very bad places my boys have grown up
asking their mother why is it that Dad
gets up in the middle of the night and
goes down the TV room because you know
he doesn't turn the TV on he just sits
there all night that's because they're
things you can't forget things you're
not meant to forget well I was sitting
in that pitch-black selim friends my
father 57 was climbing the subway stairs
of New York as he did every day he was
in great physical shape he just happened
to trip he reached his arm to break his
fall he slipped hit his head on a
railing laying it at the bottom of the
step he was dead I didn't know he was
dead
I was thinking about him how much I
couldn't wait to see him hold him hug
him kiss him tell him how sorry I was
but I never got the opportunity to do
that I was very fortunate
because I was raised in a great country
where everyone gets the second chance
I owe my country 800 times more than I
can ever repay it over these past four
decades that is why I'm at the FBI today
32 years after the federal court order
expired requiring me to do so I have
turned down three pardons from three
sitting presidents of the United States
because I do not believe nor will I ever
believe that a piece of paper will
excuse my actions that only in the end
my actions will 40 plus years ago on an
undercover assignment and used in Texas
I met my wife when the assignment was
over I broke protocol to tell her who I
really was I didn't have a dime to my
name but I eventually asked her to marry
me against the wishes of her parents she
did I could sit up here and tell you
that I was born again I saw the light
prison rehabilitated me but the truth is
God gave me a wife she gave me three
beautiful children she gave me a family
and she changed my life she and she
alone everything I have everything I've
achieved Who I am today because of love
of a woman and the respect through boys
have for their father something I would
never ever jeopardize there comes a time
in all of our lifetime we grow older and
eventually we're fortunate enough we
have children and as every parent knows
whether your child's three months old or
38 years old when you lay your head on a
pillow at night you're just about to
close your eyes the last thing you think
about last thing you're worried about
are your children so if you still have
your mother you still have your father
you give him a hug
you give him a kiss you tell them you
love them while you can and to those men
in the audience both young and old I
would remind you what it truly is to
actually be a man it has absolutely
nothing to do with money
achievements skills accomplishments
degrees professions positions a real man
loves his wife a real man is faithful to
his wife and a real man next to God in
his country put his wife and his
children as the most important thing in
his life Steven Spielberg made a
wonderful film but I've done nothing
greater nothing more rewarding nothing
more worthwhile nothing makes actually
brought me more peace more joy more
happiness more content in my life than
simply being a good husband a good
father and what I strive to be every day
of my life a great daddy
god bless you and thanks for coming this
morning
we we have a bunch of questions both
from the audience as well as some people
have sent in so we'll take some
questions I'll be happy to answer do you
have any advice for Googlers who are
feeling impostor syndrome the insecure
feeling that they're not nearly as good
at their jobs at their job as their
colleagues believe they are and how did
you stay confident or did you when you
knew you were you were in an impostor
you know people always say to me you
know you were brilliant you're genius no
I wasn't adolescent and that was why I
was successful I was so young that I had
no fear of being caught I was so yard
that I didn't think about consequences
everything I did was not premeditated
everything was done by opportunity or by
chance so if in fact I was standing out
in front of a bank in Manhattan with a
$500 check there was never a plan I
didn't say to myself I'm going in cashes
check if they say this I'll do this if
they do this I'll do that I just went in
and did it and I felt that there was
nothing I couldn't do I had tremendous
confidence in myself but everything was
for a reason so I saw that airline crew
I never dreamed about getting on planes
or staying in hotels around the world
for free all I saw was a uniform and
said to myself if I had that uniform on
and I walked in a bank it would be a lot
easier to cash a cheque than me walking
in is just some young kid so the whole
thing was to get a uniform and do that
but then I quickly realized the power of
that uniform how it turned from night to
day no one ever said no when I walked in
to cash a check even though there was no
bank account there or anything else all
they saw was a uniform they didn't see
me and I realized very earlier on the
power of that uniform and then I
realized I had gone to the TWA ticket
counter just like he showed in the movie
I was going to purchase an airline
ticket and the ticket agent said to me
are you riding for free are you buying
the ticket and I said riding for free
yeah you armed the jump see and I
learned about the jump seats and then I
flew around the world for free
everything I did I did by chance
I've moved into an apartment complex in
Atlanta I said it was a doctor because I
didn't want to write down airline pilot
they were looking for me with that
airline pilot so I said it was a doctor
I said pediatrician because was a
singles complex and there were only
single people living there and then I
met a doctor who lived there and then he
took me up to the hospital and I met
people so I ended up at the hospital
I dated a flight attendant whose father
was the Attorney General in Louisiana I
told her that I had gone to law school
but I never practiced law instead I
wanted to be a pilot and got furloughed
from the airline so she introduced me to
her dad and I went to work everything
was all these opportunities but always
the confidence that I could pull it off
and that that became just from age but
if you believe that you're good at what
you do
and you strive to be good at what you do
you don't need to worry about what other
people think you need to be able to
understand that you have your own
confidence that you can do whatever it
is you're required to do and other
people will see that confidence in you
the minute you start doubting yourself
other people will see the that you're
doubting yourself and that becomes a
weakness in your personality they always
want to be confident and everything you
do that you can do it you can get it
done you'll find a way to get it get it
done obviously technology has evolved
quite a bit since you were going around
and things like that would somebody be
able to accomplish something similar
today even with yeah you know I get
asked that a lot
actually it's sorry to say but 4,000
times easier today than when I did it
technology breeds crime it always has
and it always will and there will always
be people willing to use technology in a
self-serving way so you know I always
use the example that when I used to
forge checks
I needed a Heidelberg printing press it
took me about 12 months to learn that
press that was a million dollar printing
press it was 90 feet long 18 feet high
it required three journeyman operators
to operate it so I bill scaffoldings on
either sides of the press so I could
eliminate the other two positions and
because I was a teenager I was able to
run the length of that press but there
were color separations
there were negatives there were
chemicals you had to work with there
were plates you had to make there was
typesetting involved
today one just opens a laptop and
decides to forge an counterfeit a check
they first bring up a diagram of a check
with a little security background in it
and then they go and look on who is
checked in and afford so if I'm gonna
Forge for example into its check
I go to their company's website capture
their logo and put it up on the corner
of the left part top of the check I put
in their corporate address I might put
some stuff in the background and step
and repeat patterns or whatever it is
I'm designing and in 15 minutes I have a
four color beautiful check prettier than
the real check they use up on my website
now in the old days you de would have
said to me you know this check you
printed from Pan Am I have to admit
pretty awesome it's amazing for color it
looks terrific but let me ask you this
how do you know where Pan Am banks I
have no idea where they're bank so I'm
just making up a bank's name Chase
Manhattan Bank One Chase Plaza New York
you know how do you know what the
account number is I have no ideas I'm
just making up a bunch of numbers how do
you know who the authorized signer is I
don't know I'm just signing somebody's
Joe black whatever name on that check
but we live in a way too much
information world today so once I forge
in to its check every forger calls their
victim twice because every forger will
tell you a victim will tell me
everything I need to know so when he
calls he would have simply said like to
speak to someone in accounts receivables
sure one moment counts receivables can I
help you I was getting ready to pay an
invoice you sent us but we prefer to
wire you the funds just needed wiring
instructions yes so we bank with Bank of
America or account numbers 1 7 6 8 5 3
they tell you right on the phone you can
call any company and just tell them
you're gonna wire the money they're
going to tell you where they bank on
what street their account number but you
need on the check so I captured the
bank's logo I put it on the check up
with the mickr line down on the bottom
and I hang up and call back into a
corporation gonna help you yeah I'd like
to speak to someone in your corporate
communications sure one moment corporate
communications can help you yeah wonder
if you be so kind as to mail me a copy
of your annual report sure send you one
out today on page three is a signature
of the chairman of the board the CEO the
CFO
white glossy paper black ink
camera-ready art scan it digitize it put
it on the check the technologies made it
much much easier when we talk about IDs
making an airline ID today would be very
simple with the technology that's
available today
so all of those things are a lot easier
as I used to say that would be a little
more difficult for me to get on an
aircraft today posing as a pilot but if
you ever go to the airport and watch the
crews go through the airport they just
simply hold up a card and they go
through the airport that anyone could
make that card with today's software and
technology that's available to anybody
so a technology certainly made a lot
easier so that's why we are constantly
making technology to counter the use of
technology by criminals and to make it
more difficult for them to convert that
technology into a negative idea in your
candid opinion did Leonardo DiCaprio and
Tom Hanks do justice t-to urine Joseph
cheese respective roles in the movie
yeah you know I'm I'm not a big movie
person so I don't I've watched very
little television this is most of my
life not just something I took up even
as a kid I didn't watch a lot of
television I don't watch a lot of
television now and I certainly very
rarely go to movies and so when it was
announced that Leo head was the person
picked to play the part I really knew
nothing about him my sons weren't too
happy that it was Leo but I didn't I
didn't know anything about him so I went
to the movies and saw street gangs of
New York and i said to myself sitting
there how would this person portray a
person 16 years old he had a beard he
was at the time he filmed that movie was
about 27 28 years old I thought no one's
gonna believe this guy's 16 but because
I'd never saw the script I didn't know
if maybe Spielberg was making the
character a lot older and not a teenager
now when the movie came out it was quite
amazing that Leo starts out in the film
at 14 then he's 16 and he's 18 and he's
21 he is an amazing character actor and
he took the role and he did an amazing
job of playing the role Tom Hanks's
character was actually named Joe Shea SH
EA he was an Irishman from Boston Joe
Shea was my supervisor at the FBI after
I came out of prison
I answer directly to him he and I were
friends for thirty years until his death
I've written five books on crime the
last book I wrote stealing your life I
dedicated that book to him and our 30
year relationship but he was an Irishman
from Boston in which Tom Hanks he didn't
want his real name used so Tom Hanks
used the name of an old football player
and took that name call Hanratty but if
you were watching the screen for me it
was like watching him he looked like him
he sounded like him he had his
mannerisms they did an amazing job both
of them and portraying the parts of real
people that were still living at that
time so first of all as a father your
statement was just time each tearing so
I can say anything about that I mean
that's totally practical with the
equifax hacks and the anthem hacks that
everyone in this room has been probably
affected by one of the other is there
anything we can do as citizens to
protect ourselves or is it a lost cause
no I'll tell you what to do but let me
explain this to you that is where I when
I went to the FBI forty-one years ago I
worked undercover for a long period of
time then I went into the field and
dealt with counterfeits and forgeries
embezzlement financial crimes in the
last 20 years I've dealt with only cyber
related crimes so I spend most of my
time with breaches I have worked every
breach back to t.j.maxx 15 years ago and
this is what I've learned first of all
every single breach every breach occurs
because somebody in that company did
something they weren't supposed to do or
somebody in that company failed to do
something they were supposed to do
hackers do not cause breaches people do
and every breach comes down to that so
in the case of Equifax they didn't
update their infrastructure they didn't
fix the patches that should have put in
place they were very negligent and what
they were doing
so the hacker waited for the door to
open so when you interview a hacker the
hacker will say to you look I can't get
into Chase Bank the truth is they spend
about a half a billion dollars a year on
technology every 12 months they spend a
half a billion dollars of their profit
on putting technology and software in
their bank to keep me out
however they employ 200,000 people
worldwide all I have to do is wait for
one of those people to do something they
weren't supposed to do or fail to do
what they were supposed to do and
that'll open the door for me to get in
when you steal credit card numbers like
Home Depot target at t.j.maxx that's
stealing credit cards and debit card
information that has a very short short
shelf life so you have to get rid of it
very very quickly but if I steal your
name your social security number and
your date of birth you can't change your
name you can't change your social
security number you can't change your
date of birth so those people warehouse
that data for two to three years so we
won't even see that surface for at least
a couple of years before some of that
will start to surface the data that was
stolen whatever number they start with I
think was 143 million then it became 146
million it was a million driver's
licenses now it's ten point six million
driver's licenses all breaches start
with very low numbers before they let
you know the actual true number so it's
probably about two hundred and forty
million pieces of information that was
stolen but I remind people all the time
that they're going to warehouse that
data so buying one year credit
monitoring service is absolutely
worthless because nothing's going to
happen in a year and if you really
analyze Equifax they were very unethical
in what they did they thought to
themselves first of all they sold a
bunch of stock knowing that it was going
to come out that was worse but then they
stat there and said how do we make a
profit from this was our mistake but how
we turn this around into a profit so
they sat there and said what we'll do is
we'll offer millions and millions of
people one year credit monitoring
service for free they'll sign up and in
a year from now we'll simply say that
data hasn't really surfaced yet you need
to be enrolled automatically into our
program which is $20.00 a month so
they're going to make millions and
millions of dollars with automatic
enrollment into their their program if
you've been a Bri if you have been a
subject of that breach there's only two
things you can do and two things only
one you can freeze your credit
each date varies about that so some
states freezing your credit is free
other states there's a fee associated
with it typically ten dollars to freeze
it eighteen dollars to unfreeze it ten
dollars to freeze it again so for the
last two years I've testified before
Congress and you go to my website at
Abagnale calm you'll see me testifying
before Congress telling them that they
need to put a federal law across the 50
states that allow anyone to freeze their
credit at any time and unfreeze it and
anytime there should be no reason that
there should be a fee associated with it
because then that becomes a deterrent to
people actually freezing their credit so
you can freeze your credit that's one
thing you can do and then you unfreeze
it if you need it if it's not too much
of a hassle and then the only other
thing is to monitor your credit so I've
used a credit monitoring service since
1992 so for about 25 years I've been
using a service I think they charge me
like 12 dollars a month
the reason I like it I I can monitor my
own credit I don't need them all they've
given me for that 12 dollars is the
ability to go on my keyboard and a few
strokes and bring up my credit reports
instantly on my screen and up on my
screen comes all three reports Equifax
Experian TransUnion at the top is my
score for the moment of that day what my
credit score is at those three agencies
then I can scroll down and look at my
credit and I can say to myself you know
I paid this car off like four months ago
they still show that I owe money to this
bank I'll correct that and I can go all
the way down and see every inquiry made
on my credit that's what we call hard
and soft in choirs and that's your
employer checking your credit the IRS
checking your credit your insurance
company checking your credit or a credit
card you applied for and they're
checking your credit so I really don't
need them but for fee they're also
monitoring my credit as well so they're
checking my credit and they're letting
me know in real time if someone attempts
to use my social security number to get
a job open a bank account or whatever
the case may be so to me it's worth
using that now one other tip I'll give
you is I don't own a debit card I've
never owned one I've never allowed my
threes
to possess one certainly and truly the
worst financial tool ever given to the
American consumer so a long time ago I
asked myself a simple question how would
I remove 99.9 percent of my personal
liability like that where they really
don't to worry about all these things so
I use the safest form of payment that
exists on the face of the earth and that
is a credit card credit card Visa
MasterCard American Express Discover
card not debit credit but credit card
every day of my life I spend their money
I don't spend my money my money sits in
a money market account it earns interest
actually nobody knows where it is
because it's not exposed to anybody to
find it it's just sitting there I go to
the dry cleaner I give my card I pick up
the groceries I give my card I put fuel
in my boat on the weekend I use my card
I pay the marina to keep my boat in the
water all year long they put the rent on
my credit card I travel all over the
world while I wait to get reimbursed I
use my credit card if I need euros I go
to the ATM machine I use my credit card
I'm not going to use my debit card to
get euros overseas or pounds and Great
Britain and every day I use my card and
then if I pay the bill in full a part of
the bill my credit score goes up so I'm
building credit while I'm using that
credit card and if tomorrow and I'll do
everything to protect my information but
if tomorrow someone gets my card number
and charges 1 million dollars on my
credit card
by federal law my liability is zero
I have no liability so yes I love to
shop online I don't use a special card I
just use my credit card if they don't
deliver the merchandise if they deliver
it and it's broken if the host site I
went to was fictitious to begin with
I have no zero or less zero liability
when you use your debit card every time
you reach for you're exposing the money
in your account
the only person's going to get robbed as
you when you use your debit card you
could use it for the next 50 years 20
times a day you will not raise your
credit score by that much and of course
when you use your debit card you are
liable up to a certain amount and it
takes a while in
order to get that debit card fixed so
when we do post investigations at
breaches and we say to someone on your
incident what happened well I was in
target but I used a Visa card so I don't
know nothing I got a they canceled my
card the next day two days later FedEx
sent me a new card and that was the last
I heard about it what about you and I
used a debit card there that took three
thousand dollars out of my checking
account it took me two months to get my
money back why they said they were
investigating I had to pay my rent had
kids tuition everything I couldn't pay
it because they had my money so I do it
for that so I had three sons that went
off to college and I said to them I'm
not giving you a debit card I've
actually applied for a credit card in
your name so it's your card of course
you're 18 you have no credit
so I guaranteed the card so as a
guarantee of the card three things take
place one the bill comes to me and I'm
responsible for the bill so if you spend
a lot of time in the bar I'm going to
know that too I set the limit on the
card so whatever I want you to spend
each month is while you're at school
I'll set that limit third every month
that I pay the bill goes on your credit
so by the time you get out of college
you should be looking at a credit score
of about eight hundred you want to buy a
car buy a house buy a condo you're not
going to need me to do that all three of
my sons came out of college with grades
scores of the round 800 one of the best
things you can do for your kids is to
teach them to learn to use credit early
on and build credit in their name credit
is a very important thing thirty years
ago it only meant whether you got the
car you got the house today everything
is based on your credit the company
hires you they're going to check your
credit if you buy auto insurance is
gonna check your credit you buy life
insurance is gonna check your credit
everything is based on your credit so
you want to make sure that you maintain
a good credit and it's one of the best
things you can do with your kids
question I wanted to ask you more about
the FBI specifically and kind of hiring
and how you got in there is such an
interesting story you know when I was
younger I was really interested in you
know working for the FBI worked in fraud
and security if my boss is watching I'm
very happy where I am right now but I
couldn't believe how difficult it was to
try and get into public service I
thought you know
you know I was willing to take a pay cut
I was willing to move anywhere I was
willing to do anything and it was
difficult I mean I was in touch with
people at the FBI and they were super
nice and very helpful but I just
couldn't believe that you know the
background checks and there's no
available jobs and you have to keep
emailing me and oh you don't have a lot
of griot that's not gonna matter and you
know again I ended up in a great spot so
I'm happy but when people ask me about
public service and working for these
organizations I really don't
the FBI is extremely tough we have about
13,000 agents and about 25,000 support
people who support the agent analysts
and things of that nature
currently we take one in every 10,000
applicants to be an agent so it is
extremely difficult to get in the FBI so
just to share the story with you my
oldest boy when he was about 14 I used
to take my kids to the FBI Academy which
is on a marine military base in Quantico
Virginia because I like to shoot guns on
the range and I would take them up there
when I was teaching class they would be
out there with the instructor shooting
on the range and I remember distinctly
coming back off the base which takes you
about 20 minutes to get from the Academy
off to the base and when we were riding
through the base he said to me no dad
this is what I want to do I want to
become an FBI agent I saw that's great
son but you know they keep that in mind
and so he graduated from high school he
said to me I really want to become a FBI
agent I said that's great you know you
got to go to college so he went to
school at University of Kansas got his
undergraduate he always thought he'd
change his mind my wife always had a
Christmas party for all the agents until
so we had about 200 FBI agents in the
state and every Christmas they would be
at our home with their family and he
would go talk to all of them and Special
Agent in Charge who's in charge of the
entire state he would say to him yeah my
son tried to get in but they turned him
down he's and he explained to him that
senators sons have been turned down
former president's sons have been turned
down has nothing to do with anything
other than you and I kept emphasizing
that to him but I kept thinking he
changed his mind so when he graduated
from undergraduate school I said Sonia
I would recommend you go to law school I
have no desire to be a lawyer I said I
understand but if you really want to
pursue the FBI and that would put you up
a little higher and the chances of
getting in you went to Loyola School of
Law I graduated from law school the
bureau requires you pass the bar so he
took the bar in Illinois pass the bar
and then he went through the year-long
process of the process that takes to
apply to the bureau and I got very
worried because I'd say to my wife that
you know I'm a little concerned because
first of all I don't know if someone in
management would like the fact that my
son is an FBI agent or maybe someone in
management would look at it and say his
dad has done so much for him for them we
need to look at his son it had
absolutely nothing to do with that was
all about him and I always tell him
every day he's living his life's dream
so he's he got it but it is very very
tough so when the bureau came to me and
they just a few years ago celebrated
their 100th anniversary they did a big
coffee table book and they talked about
me in there as being the only person
they ever did that with the whole thing
to the bureau back then the director was
Clarence Kelly who was the director of
the bureau at that time he wanted the
ability because he could say to me okay
you are a lieutenant in the Army you
have been in the Army this many years
your expertise is this missile I need
you to learn all of this in two weeks
and I'm sending you to this base and I
want you to find out what's going on in
this particular area he knew that no
matter what assignment he gave me under
cover I could go do it whether it was a
scientist at a lab in New Mexico whether
it was a doctor in a hospital he knew
that I could get away with it make it
believe people believe that I was that
person without any doubt and that's how
they used me I think that was their
initial thing and then of course when my
time was up and again keep in mind that
when I got that offer to me it was just
an opportunity I looked at it well
opportunity to get out of jail I I'm not
going to sit here and tell you I was a
change person that I was a different
person and when I went into prison I
just saw that as an opportunity to get
out of prison so I was going to do it
but then I you get involved with the men
and women
the FBI who obviously it's probably the
most ethical people who ever meet in
your life they have tremendous character
love of country love of family that kind
of wears off on you and I started to
realize that you know I've met my wife
and I was becoming a husband I'd take
care of my wife had take care of
children fatherhood all those things is
what really changed my life wasn't that
I was rehabilitated or those things
changed my life so if it started out
more as an opportunity so when my time
was over and the court said his court
order this ceases to be he's free to do
whatever he wants to do I made the
choice to stay there only because I
thought that I could bring a lot to the
bureau so the bureau was very smart they
realized very early on that I wouldn't
be accepted very well and so there was a
great scene in the movie where Steven
Spielberg obviously knew that I was very
very difficult for the agents you keep
in mind now this is back when there were
no women agents no blacks no Hispanics
everybody was a white agent and they
either graduated from Harvard or they
graduated from Yale and they all came
from very good families and it was a
totally different environment 40 years
ago so they all have really tunnel
vision once a criminal always a criminal
so they were not very very happy with
the fact that I came there so he showed
that scene of me walking in the office
and that the way people looked at me
that took years for me to turn that
around took years for me to build their
credibility and of course in the first
part of my career was out in the field
so as undercover so they really were
dealing with me so when I finished
working on the cover that the director
then simply said you know what he needs
to go to the Academy and teach class so
that every agent who comes to the
Academy they will he will be their
instructor in one of their courses and
they will all know him so I've taught at
the academy now for well over 35 years I
taught my son when he went through the
Academy
three generations of agents that helped
a great deal because they learned who I
was early on knew who I was and that
tamed a lot of that but took a lot of
lot of a lot of work to turn that around
and build that credibility I'm curious
to know whether or not you continued to
fly even after you were released from
jail and working at the Bureau
as the movie suggests or if that was a
bit of Hollywood in Belgium now you know
when people ask me and I saw the movie
in a movie theater I've only seen the
movie twice I've seen that trailer a
thousand times but I've only seen the
movie twice so when the media asked me
what I thought about the movie and what
was right and what was wrong I said you
know well first of all I have two
brothers and a sister he portrayed
portrayed me as an only child in real
life my mother never remarried as a
scene in the movie where she's remarried
as a little girl that didn't really
happen in the real life I never saw my
father after I ran away in the movie
they keep having him come back to
Christopher Walken and the film was
nominated for the Academy Award for that
role as my father that didn't really
happen I escaped off the aircraft but I
escaped off the aircraft through the
kitchen galley where they bring the food
and stuff onto the plane and there they
had me escape through the toilet my wife
kind of looked at me said you didn't go
through the toilet
yes I know honey go through the toilet
so I thought he stayed very close to the
story but pretty much all of that where
he was he was very concerned about being
accurate first of all because it was a
it was the first time he made a movie
about a real person living second the
Bureau had an information officer on the
set for all the SH all the shooting of
the entire film to make sure that what
he said about the FBI and what the
comments they made and all that was
accurate the agent there was an agent
from our information officer on the on
the set and then of course is he later
said I really got most of my information
from those were three retired agents
because they said they their notes were
so particular and so accurate he said
that when I filmed the scene in the
hotel room I had scripted it and so
we're sitting there and I said read me
your notes he said I entered the room
with my gun pulled I heard someone in
the bathroom I ordered them to come out
of the bathroom and this is what
happened he basically loved his notes
better than his script so he used his
notes for the southern film so I thought
he did a good job of staying very very
accurate the movie I just make a final
comment you having to deal with cyber
now I'd like to write about crimes
the future so I always used to write to
my class about what will we investigate
five years from now what will an agent
be doing five years from now and
unfortunately there's good news and
there's bad news first of all the good
news we will be doing away with
passwords in the next 24 months
passwords will leave the world there
will be no more passwords there is a new
technology called true Sona
that's T ru s ona stands for true
persona it is a company in Scottsdale
Arizona that created a technology for
the CIA which we have used now for the
last few years that technology and I was
an advisor on that technology for the
CIA so I'm an advisor and bringing it to
the commercial world but it was the
ability for an agent to send data back
from the field such as Afghanistan on
their iPhone and that Langley would know
100% that is the agent on the other end
to 100% identify the person on the other
end of the device that's a level for
security so that they basically said
what if we brought this to level 2
security and we did away with passwords
so immediately when they announced that
Microsoft gave them 10 million dollars
and said I'm in develop it so Microsoft
is going to use it on all their gaming
all their access to their computers etc
we now have the ability to identify who
the person is on the other end of that
device and when you go to their website
a true Sona they actually show you how
it's done
so they demo videos there there are
three or four minutes long let's show
you how it's done and that's great
passports are stack of passwords or
stagnant they should have been gone a
long time ago it's why we have most of
the problems that we have today so it is
very important that we get rid of
passwords in just in case you didn't
know if we take a bank like a Bank of
America they spend about six million
dollars a month in their call center
resetting passwords cost them six
million dollars a month so that would
save that bank a hundred million dollars
a year to eliminate the use of passwords
so that's the good part of it and I
think that'll eventually do away with
social security numbers you'll still
have a number of
nine to you for the government purpose
but when I go buy a car I go to the
doctor I don't have to give them a
number because they already know who I
am
through my device so I won't have to
provide a social security number so I
think that's a good part but I do
believe that cyber it up until this
point in time has been used for
financial crimes or gathering data and
information which is of value what's
going to happen is we're going to see
cyber very quickly now turn very black
so we have the ability as you know to
basically shut someone's pacemaker off
but we have to be within 35 feet of them
we test these device at Quantico all the
time so as long as I walk up within 35
feet of you I take control of any bodily
device you have on you so if I want to
assassinate you
I want to speed it up take it down I can
do that but I believe that in five years
you'll be able to do that from five
thousand miles away we have the ability
now that we test that we can chase a car
down the interstate we got to get up
with them thirty five feet of the
vehicle we take over the vehicle we shut
the motor off we lock the person in the
car we lock the power window so they
can't open them we can turn on their
airbag again five years from now you'd
be able to do that five thousand miles
away so yes our electrical grid uses a
terrorist tool the ability to shut down
an entire system shut down an entire
banking system those are all the things
that unfortunately we'll be dealing with
in the next four or five years as cyber
starts to make that turn to the very
black side of cyber not just about
stealing money information and data and
so that's why we're gonna have to work
extra hard to make sure that we go back
to protect our electrical grid we I
always remind people we have the
technology to prevent most of these
problems but if you don't use it and
it's worthless and we tend to develop a
lot of things and I just wanna make this
emphasis to you we develop a lot of
things without following them through so
one thing I've done in the government
over the last several years if the
government is going to buy a technology
they send me to the technology company
and say try to defeat that I just simply
go there and see
their technology as one CEO says he
plays chess with you you tell him you
did this this and this and then he tells
you we have a weakness right here
because I would come in and do this so
they build a wall up and then he says no
I would still get in here until he says
he can't do it any longer then we know
we have a good technology but very
rarely is and I did that with true sona
when we did it for the purpose of the
CIA but today you and it tells you on
the website that I advised in that
project and why how it became down to
commercial use but today what we have is
we develop things so we say to you
here's a device you put in your kitchen
and then you can talk to it to tell you
ask what the weather is what's on TV
denied all of that that I could easily
reverse that and listen to everything
you say in your house there are so many
weaknesses in your home your security
cameras or access points your remote
control on your TV your Samsung
television your refrigerator that tells
you how much milk is in it my thing is I
really don't need my refrigerator to
talk to my toaster they've gotten along
for a long time without ever having a
conversation but what happens is we
develop something we get real excited
about we I get this to the marketplace
and sure enough we never look at the
negative side all I try to say to a
technology company yeah this is great
now can you take a little time to just
say how would someone use this
technology and a negative self-serving
way so that we build the block to that
before we ever give it to the public to
use it we'd save a lot of problems be an
absolute pleasure spend the morning with
you thank you very much for coming
[Applause]
you